<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="content-type" />
<title>NeHe Translations: Simple Unlit Geometry (NeHe 2)</title>
    <link href="./tutorial.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
</head>
<body>
<table width="100%"><thead>
	<tr>
		<td width="8em;"></td><th align="center"><a href="index.xhtml">OpenGLContext Python tutorials</a></th><td width="8em;"></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<td><a href="nehe1.xhtml">Previous</a></td>
	<td align="center">NeHe Translations: Simple Unlit Geometry (NeHe 2)</td>
	<td align="right"><a href="index.xhtml">Index</a></td>
	</tr>
</thead></table>
	<div class="code-sample">#! /usr/bin/env python
</div>
	<div class="commentary">
	<h1 class="title">Simple Unlit Geometry (NeHe 2)</h1>
	<div class="paragraph">This tutorial is based on the 
	<a href="http://nehe.gamedev.net/data/lessons/lesson.asp?lesson=02" class="">NeHe2 tutorial</a>
	 by Jeff Molofee.
</div>
</div>
	<div class="code-sample">from OpenGLContext import testingcontext
BaseContext, MainFunction = testingcontext.getInteractive()
from OpenGL.GL import *
class TestContext( BaseContext ):
	"""Rendering Context with custom viewpoint and render"""
</div>
	<div class="commentary">
	<div class="paragraph">This context customizes two points in the BaseContext.</div>
	<div class="paragraph">The first point is the initialPosition attribute.  By
default, the OpenGLContext contexts position your
eye/camera at (0,0,10), which makes it easy to see most
meter-sized geometry located at the origin.  Since the
tutorial manually repositions the geometry to be in a
good viewing position under the assumption that the eye
is at (0,0,0), we need to make that assumption valid.</div>
	<div class="paragraph">The second point is the Render method.  This method is
called by most RenderMode subclasses to provide the
scene graph rendering.  (The exception being the
transparent objects RenderMode.)  The mode parameter
will be a constant from the OpenGLContext.constants
module (or potentially another integer if a user-generated
rendering mode is being used).</div>
	<div class="paragraph">Note: the results of this Demo will be different than the
tutorial code because the OpenGLContext is automatically
enabling lighting.
</div>
</div>
	<div class="code-sample">
	initialPosition = (0,0,0) # set initial camera position, tutorial does the re-positioning
	def Render( self, mode = 0):
		"""Render the geometry for the scene."""
		## Triggers the default operations, which allows for, for example, transparent rendering
		BaseContext.Render( self, mode )
		## Moves the drawing origin 6 units into the screen and 1.5 units to the left
		glDisable( GL_CULL_FACE )
		glTranslatef(-1.5,0.0,-6.0);
		## Starts the geometry generation mode
		glBegin(GL_TRIANGLES)
		glVertex3f( 0.0,  1.0, 0.0)
		glVertex3f(-1.0, -1.0, 0.0)
		glVertex3f( 1.0, -1.0, 0.0)
		glEnd()
		## Moves the drawing origin again, cumulative change is now (1.5,0.0,6.0)
		glTranslatef(3.0,0.0,0.0);
		## Starts a different geometry generation mode
		glBegin(GL_QUADS)
		glVertex3f(-1.0,-1.0, 0.0)
		glVertex3f( 1.0,-1.0, 0.0)
		glVertex3f( 1.0, 1.0, 0.0)
		glVertex3f(-1.0, 1.0, 0.0)
		glEnd();
if __name__ == "__main__":
	MainFunction ( TestContext)
"""Based on:
	OpenGL Tutorial #2.
	Project Name: Jeff Molofee's OpenGL Tutorial
	Project Description: Creating Your First Polygon &amp; Quad
	Authors Name: Jeff Molofee (aka NeHe)
	Authors Web Site: nehe.gamedev.net
	COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER: (c)2000 Jeff Molofee
	If you plan to put this program on your web page or a cdrom of
	any sort, let me know via email, I'm curious to see where
	it ends up :)
	If you use the code for your own projects please give me
	credit, or mention my web site somewhere in your program 
	or it's docs.
"""
</div>
<table width="100%"><thead>
	<tr>
		<td width="8em;"></td><th align="center"><a href="index.xhtml">OpenGLContext Python tutorials</a></th><td width="8em;"></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<td><a href="nehe1.xhtml">Previous</a></td>
	<td align="center">NeHe Translations: Simple Unlit Geometry (NeHe 2)</td>
	<td align="right"><a href="index.xhtml">Index</a></td>
	</tr>
</thead></table>
<div class="metadata">This document was generated by <code>bzr branch http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Emcfletch/pyopengl/directdocs/</code> on 2009-07-20T03:34:58.521798 from nehe2.py</div>
</body>
</html>